Let us start with the introduction to data structures.
Data is an integral part of core applications or programs.
If I define a program program as nothing was set of instructions which perform operations on data to
get some results so we don't get that it is more of instruction no use of instructions than the data
dome dome data.
We use it in many places like Data Structures databases data visit house big data.
So from this what is actually data structure.
So for this if we have a little bit knowledge about all other things also that would be better.
So far so I'll start with data structures and we'll also have the brief introduction to databases and
data of it holds as well as big data.
So first let us start with Introduction to data structures.
First of all let me introduce what is data structure data structure can be defined as arrangement of
collection of data items so that they can utilize efficiently operations on that data can be done efficiently.
So it's all about the arrangement of data and the operations on the data that are efficient operations
on the data.
But the question is where inside the main memory during the execution of a program.
So without data structure that cannot be any application.
Every application will have a set of instructions which will perform operations on data source data
is mandatory then the data is kept inside them in memory the programs will be inside the main memory.
So during the execution of a program how the program will manage data inside the main memory and performed
operations.
That is about a structure.
So I'll take an example and explain you in detail how the program utilizes data and how they put that
data inside them in memory.
Let us look at this diagram.
Here is a simple process that is central processing unit that is a microprocessor.
And this is main memory.
Let us say this is a ram and this is a storage that is hard disk drive or external storage or just call
it storage.
This will execute our programs.
That is it is a process so it will execute the instructions.
And this is temporary memory that is working memory.
It is also called primary memory and this is permanent storage.
This is permanent storage.
So if we look into over B.C. then we will have a process of RAM and hard disk or if we look at it or
a mobile phone.
Then there will be a processor and there will be some RAM like 2G or 3G or 4G bill for them and there
is a storage of 16 GBP 22 G.B. on wondering dude should be like this.
That very day we keep all the programs when we install any program in our P.C. or on a lot of mobile
phone program or an application will get installed on storage.
So here I am showing it as a program final does the program fine.
Then where do we keep our data.
That box will keep it on hard disk.
Suppose you have any pics or photos or videos or any documents that ball you keep it on your hard disk
or a new mobile phone you keep it in storage.
So these are data files so I take one example of a commonly used application like M.S. word.
Most Windows users use a mouse word commonly used so there are not bad.
Also you can assume that this is a must word program file and this is documented find out.
Do you see X Files.
And this is a Emma's word flight.
Now to this example I'll explain you where the data structure comes into picture and how a Miss Ward
may need a data structure.
Now let us see how our application program runs.
If you want to run a message board on your P.C. audio on mobile phone you are touching an icon or double
clicking an icon of a mouse would then let us see what all happens.
This award program will be brought into the mean memory so it isn't brought into the mean memory.
So let's see these are all the instructions of this award program such as I'm showing lines to show
though machine language code or instructions off a message board program.
So whenever you want to run an application the application Gord or the program Gorda has to be brought
into the main thing.
Then once it is brought in Cebu will start executing this this word application so you will see a window
appearing on the screen and then all the menu options everything comes up and you can start using this
would know if you want to open a flight document find in your M.S. Ward application.
Sometimes this program wants to access this data in this file.
Then this data also has to be brought in to mean memory so literacy.
This is the data.
This is some word document fine.
So data is also broke into the main memory.
Now from this I can explain that I can say that our program has to be brought into the main memory for
its execution as well as data has to be brought into the main memory for processing on the data so that
these instructions can perform operation on their data program and get identically that ugly process
the data keeping it on the storage.
The data has to be brought into the meeting memory.
Now from this we can say that every application deals with some data whether it is a mis word or if
it is notepad then the notepad file text file has to be brought into the main memory if it is a girl
your browsing an event page then that page.
How many does coming from internet.
It has to be in the mean memory.
So every application on your computer system or any mobile phone deals with the same data and that data
has to be inside main memory how you are denied the data inside the main memory so that it can be easily
used by this application efficiently utilized by this application program.
So how you organize their data.
So the arrangement or organizing of the data inside the main memory for efficient utilization by the
application that arrangement is called as a data structure.
So data structures are formed in the mean memory during the execution time of a program.
When the program runs it needs the data.
So the question how it will arrange the data in the mean memory for performing its operations.
So that arrangement is called s data structures so a data structure is a type of a running program.
It may be doing different data structures like arrays or linkages or trees or hash table whatever the
data structure is suitable application can use that particular data structure here for arranging its
data.
Data may be our text data or it might data like images or videos.
Let us condense maybe there in the form of data so all those condense how they are organized in the
main memory.
So we have to design some data structure so that the application can use it perfectly or more efficiently
an application should work faster or process faster or that data.
So that's it.
So I have given you the idea.
What is data structure and and.
It will be in your computer system.
So it is not on the disk.
It is inside the mean.
So with all that structure we cannot develop any application.
No let me give you some idea of old data business.
See when that data is larger in size are coming to share data that is used in businesses like banks
or retail stores or manufacturing farms they will have a lot of data and they will have some order that
not easily adopt in the form of database tables or relational data unveiled to keep that relational
data all of that data is stored on the disk.
So I just remove this until you relational table that is kept on the disk.
Now you can see here that on the disk on the hardest there's a table that every table I'm showing will
only one table.
There are many many tables.
Data may be spread out across various database tables and is organized in the form of tables and the
tables are having a relationship between them.
So mostly come once your data is stored in the form of data tables.
Now if any obligation program is using that database then data has to be brought into the main memory.
Then only you can use it.
So again you need a structure here.
When you are pulling the data from the hard disk or from the storage to the mean memory during execution
then you need definitely data structure.
So arrangement of data here in the mean memories that structure.
Then how does data is organize in the form of people on the disk.
This is database.
This is data just brief introduction I'm giving a database means arranging the data in some model like
say a relational model in the bottom and in a storage so that it can be retrieved or to access by applications
easily.
That arrangement and the hardness are in the permanent storage.
It's called us database then NICS.
Let us go to the next strong like I was talking about commercial data.
That is the data used in businesses so they will have a huge amount of data daily coming in.
Like many customers are making transactions or lot of goods sort of manufactures and sold.
So the data size will be growing day by day large and large so large sized data are very large data
that may not be used for daily life.
Like 1 year old a 10 year old data that could not be used now.
So come on surely that can be categorized into two that is operational data or legacy data all the data
operational data that is used that is daily and legacy data can be kept as storage is somewhere if required
we can fetch that data and use it or you can see historical data so that historical data can be kept
on a day off or disk because just imagine ten years of data or 50 years of data is kept on not just
one disk of disk.
So the last size data which is kept here that is acting as a historical data for any commercial form.
This is data a hose
this is a data warehouse so mostly commercial forms of hard data.
Data warehouses.
Dr. David Hose is helpful for analyzing the business or making the policies or starting a new trend
or giving offers to the customers dealing with the customers so that the previous data all data will
help.
Automation and taking decisions so this large size data as data warehouse and the algorithms written
for analyzing that data are data mining algorithms data mining algorithms.
So whatever data is used I'm explaining a board that see this database.
Right.
Database.
This is data structure.
So a data structure inside the main memory during the execution database on the disk and large size
data under huge size data which is inactive no and vendor required it is utilized.
That is the W House and the last home that is big data is that term use nowadays
big data with the start of it and there are huge sizes data is accumulating.
Day by day in Internet that data is about all the things about the people about places lot of data is
available in the Internet.
And by analyzing that data we can take a lot of decisions that is for management for governance or for
businesses.
Analysis is very useful about that data.
Storing and utilizing that very large sized data that study is big data that studies big data now.
For a beginner these are maybe confusing Don.
So I have some greatly defined them where each is use.
Again ATP did not structure doesn't mean memory during the execution of a program arrangement of data
here an arrangement of data on the disk as database arrangement of data in the array of disk as data
it holds.
That is not operational.
That is not used for day to day and the big data that is used in Internet.
So that's what I have given you the different places where data is use.
Now our subject is a data structures.
So let us start with data structures.
Next video onwards.